in this year of 2020 many of us have
been on many
zoom or other virtual meetings and we've
gotten
pretty used to these platforms however
i witness on a consistent basis
five major mistakes that people use when
speaking on these platforms and today
i'm going to share
what those mistakes are and how you can
fix them
what's up everyone my name is wade
patterson and i'm passionate about all
things communication
so if you like this video subscribe turn
on your notifications and check out some
of the
other videos i have done about how you
can be
a better communicator mistake number one
i see
incredibly common on zoom meetings is
the lack
of eye contact and this is a bit odd
because
eye contact means you're looking great
at that camera lens
on many of our laptops it's that tiny
little dot up at the top
and it's maybe a weird feeling to look
at that
directly but instead i see so many
people looking
staring randomly up at the ceiling or at
the top of their wall
as they speak or instead maybe they're
looking below that camera at the faces
of the other individuals
who are on the zoom call but it's
incredibly important to remember that
when you
look at the camera lens that is the same
thing
as eye contact it's virtual eye contact
with your audience by staring at that
camera lens
you will be using effective eye contact
the second most common mistake i see
on zoom is the swivel chair if your
chair has a bit of a swivel to it
you want to realize if you are
swiveling as you talk many of us don't
even realize that we
are but for the audience it's a bit
distracting if while you're talking
especially if you don't have the eye
contact you're looking around you're
moving side to side
it's distracting be mindful of how
you're sitting if you don't have an
option other than a swivel chair then
you're going to have to really focus
otherwise if you can bring in another
chair that is simply stationary and it's
not on wheels and it doesn't swivel
that is a great option for zoom calls so
that you can sit still
and have great posture the third most
common mistake i witness
constantly on virtual meetings or zoom
calls
is the inability to use the mute
button properly this is one of the first
things you want to be familiar with on a
zoom call
is the little button that allows to mute
your microphone
or turn it back on when you're not
speaking it's important to click the
mute button because there's background
noise if you're in an office space there
may be other people
talking and that is distracting for all
of the other people
on the zoom call sometimes our
microphones are even built
into our laptop people won't be muted
and they'll be
typing on their keyboard or rubbing
their hand along the computer
and that sound is painful to listen to
if you're on the other side of that
conversation
when you're not talking mute your
microphone
i'm sure you've all had that scenario on
a zoom call
somebody thinks that they're unmuted
wade you're on mute make sure you unmute
yourself
sorry about that everyone i didn't
realize i was muted it happens on almost
every single zoom call and you don't
want to be that person
it makes you look like you don't
understand technology you're not tech
savvy
understand where the mute button is and
utilize it mute yourself when you're not
talking
and be quick to unmute yourself when it
is your turn to talk
mistake number four and this one is
perhaps debatable
feel free to disagree with me in the
comment section
if you don't think that this is a
mistake but i'm gonna put it out there
as a mistake and i'll give you a reason
why mistake number four is using a
virtual
background zoom allows you to add a
photo or even a video
that can be playing behind you or shown
behind you
as you are sitting there in a zoom
meeting and many people use this
especially if their space
is cluttered behind them or for whatever
reason maybe
it's a boring wall that they have and
they don't want to showcase that behind
them
so they use a zoom virtual background
might look like they're on
a beach or perhaps in a mansion
and these especially early on in march
and april when we were all on countless
zoom calls
they were kind of fun to experiment with
they were this new
thing but the truth is from a psychology
standpoint
that using a virtual background
subconsciously
takes away a level of trust between you
and your audience
and that sounds very strange and if
you're an audience member
you might think well wait a second i've
been on zoom meetings with other people
using virtual backgrounds
i don't care at all and you may not
think so but there
is a subconscious thing at play that
when you can't see
somebody's environment or their
background that there's a certain
layer of mistrust that your brain puts
in you're wondering
well what do they have to hide why
aren't they showing me their background
if at all possible clean up the
background behind you maybe find even if
it's a plain wall
or somewhere with a painting that's nice
to look at or something along those
lines
it's better to be in your actual
environment
than to use one of these fake virtual
backgrounds
also when you use a virtual background
very often you don't realize that if you
go back too far you
almost dissolve into the background and
you don't want to be doing that if
you're giving an important speech
or you're speaking up in a meeting and
people
are laughing because you're disappearing
into your background
that is not going to be a good approach
and the final mistake that people make
on zoom meetings when it is their turn
to speak
is not using all of the regular public
speaking skills
i understand you are in a virtual
meeting you're sitting in front of a
computer
but you still have an ability to bring
up your hands when you're talking about
certain things and use body language
you still have the opportunity to use
vocal variety
adding a little bit of dramatic when
you're talking and bringing your voice
up to really get people's attention
and all of the regular things the
structure of a speech a beginning
middle and end so many of the things
that you learn at toastmasters
meetings about how to be a great public
speaker you have an opportunity
in every virtual meeting to utilize
these skills
and you are going to come across as a
professional
virtual speaker thank you so much for
checking out
this video like i said at the beginning
if you want to be a better communicator
watch some of my other video content if
you like this channel subscribe turn on
your notifications
like this video comment if you do any of
those
you will make my day otherwise i hope
you have a great day
and i'll catch you next time